docs/bibliography.rst, before:

Bibliography
============

.. [Barr94] Barrett, Richard, et al. Templates for the solution of linear systems: building blocks for iterative methods. Vol. 43. Siam, 1994.
.. [BaJM05] Baker, A. H., Jessup, E. R., & Manteuffel, T. (2005). A technique for accelerating the convergence of restarted GMRES. SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, 26(4), 962-984.
.. [BrGr02] Bröker, Oliver, and Marcus J. Grote. "Sparse approximate inverse smoothers for geometric and algebraic multigrid." Applied numerical mathematics 41.1 (2002): 61-80.
.. [CaGP73] Caretto, L. S., et al. "Two calculation procedures for steady, three-dimensional flows with recirculation." Proceedings of the third international conference on numerical methods in fluid mechanics. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1973.
.. [DeSh12] Demidov, D. E., and Shevchenko, D. V. "Modification of algebraic multigrid for effective GPGPU-based solution of nonstationary hydrodynamics problems." Journal of Computational Science 3.6 (2012): 460-462.
.. [Saad03] Saad, Yousef. Iterative methods for sparse linear systems. Siam, 2003.
.. [SaTu08] Sala, Marzio, and Raymond S. Tuminaro. "A new Petrov-Galerkin smoothed aggregation preconditioner for nonsymmetric linear systems." SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing 31.1 (2008): 143-166.
.. [SlDi93] Sleijpen, Gerard LG, and Diederik R. Fokkema. "BiCGstab (l) for linear equations involving unsymmetric matrices with complex spectrum." Electronic Transactions on Numerical Analysis 1.11 (1993): 2000.
.. [Stue99] Stüben, Klaus. Algebraic multigrid (AMG): an introduction with applications. GMD-Forschungszentrum Informationstechnik, 1999.
.. [Stue07] Stüben, Klaus, et al. "Algebraic multigrid methods (AMG) for the efficient solution of fully implicit formulations in reservoir simulation." SPE Reservoir Simulation Symposium. Society of Petroleum Engineers, 2007.
.. [TrOS01] Trottenberg, U., Oosterlee, C., and Schüller, A. Multigrid. Academic Press, London, 2001.

Commit message:

Reference Anzt-Chow-Dongarra paper

docs/bibliography.rst, after:

Bibliography
============

.. [AnCD15] Anzt, Hartwig, Edmond Chow, and Jack Dongarra. "Iterative sparse triangular solves for preconditioning." European Conference on Parallel Processing. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2015. 
.. [Barr94] Barrett, Richard, et al. Templates for the solution of linear systems: building blocks for iterative methods. Vol. 43. Siam, 1994.
.. [BaJM05] Baker, A. H., Jessup, E. R., & Manteuffel, T. (2005). A technique for accelerating the convergence of restarted GMRES. SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, 26(4), 962-984.
.. [BrGr02] Bröker, Oliver, and Marcus J. Grote. "Sparse approximate inverse smoothers for geometric and algebraic multigrid." Applied numerical mathematics 41.1 (2002): 61-80.
.. [CaGP73] Caretto, L. S., et al. "Two calculation procedures for steady, three-dimensional flows with recirculation." Proceedings of the third international conference on numerical methods in fluid mechanics. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1973.
.. [DeSh12] Demidov, D. E., and Shevchenko, D. V. "Modification of algebraic multigrid for effective GPGPU-based solution of nonstationary hydrodynamics problems." Journal of Computational Science 3.6 (2012): 460-462.
.. [Saad03] Saad, Yousef. Iterative methods for sparse linear systems. Siam, 2003.
.. [SaTu08] Sala, Marzio, and Raymond S. Tuminaro. "A new Petrov-Galerkin smoothed aggregation preconditioner for nonsymmetric linear systems." SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing 31.1 (2008): 143-166.
.. [SlDi93] Sleijpen, Gerard LG, and Diederik R. Fokkema. "BiCGstab (l) for linear equations involving unsymmetric matrices with complex spectrum." Electronic Transactions on Numerical Analysis 1.11 (1993): 2000.
.. [Stue99] Stüben, Klaus. Algebraic multigrid (AMG): an introduction with applications. GMD-Forschungszentrum Informationstechnik, 1999.
.. [Stue07] Stüben, Klaus, et al. "Algebraic multigrid methods (AMG) for the efficient solution of fully implicit formulations in reservoir simulation." SPE Reservoir Simulation Symposium. Society of Petroleum Engineers, 2007.
.. [TrOS01] Trottenberg, U., Oosterlee, C., and Schüller, A. Multigrid. Academic Press, London, 2001.
